[Music]
twelve things you do wrong in every day
with your gadgets renowned psychologist
G Stanley Hall once said man is largely
a creature of habit and many of his
activities are more or less automatic
reflexes from the stimuli of his
environment this means that we basically
do everything on autopilot from taking
our morning shower to setting our alarm
or alarms before bed
that's pretty harmless and all but
switching off your brain isn't the best
idea when it comes to using and taking
care of your cell phone and laptop so
get ready because we're about to reveal
some of the things you do wrong every
single day and what you should do
instead with your gadgets number 12
jailbreaking your smartphone no we're
not talking about the Shawshank
Redemption here people use so-called
jailbreaking
to manipulate their device so that they
can download more apps customize their
phone settings maximize battery life or
increase their smartphones memory
however this criminal sounding activity
does have its downsides
they include threat of security hacks
not receiving automatic software updates
and a void on your warranty what's worse
you risk breaking your phone completely
if you don't know what you're doing
number eleven saving a soaked phone
using rice this is probably the most
popular smartphone life hack out there
but does it really work ghazal a company
that sells used gadgets
did a little experiment in which they
submerged nine smartphones to find out
the best technique for reviving a device
from a watery grave they then put one of
the phones and uncooked rice and
contrary to popular belief it didn't
survive so what should you do instead
gazelles team found that all you have to
do is take out all the inner parts and
leave them out to dry or you could
always get a waterproof phone if you're
willing to spend the money number 10
sleeping with your phone just look at
what technology is doing to us our phone
is the first thing we reach for in the
morning it's glued to our hand pretty
much all day and it's the last thing we
put down before we hit the sack it's
like our phones are our life source or
something however in a 2016 Twitter post
with shocking pics of burned bed sheets
and pillowcases the NYPD's 33rd precinct
warned the public of the dangers of
putting your phone under your pillow and
letting it charge overnight as you're
sleeping the batteries can easily
overheat and melt in some cases they
even explode so yeah don't do it that's
what nightstands are for okay what about
checking your social media browsing the
web or doing a little late-night online
shopping before you go to sleep nope
you'd better not first of all according
to the American macular degeneration
Association that bright blue light
coming from your screen can ruin your
eyes oh and it also messes up your
internal clock making it more difficult
for your body to go into sleep mode and
last but certainly not least it can
increase your risk of developing cancer
smart phones emit electromagnetic
number nine picking up your laptop how
do you pick your laptop up you ever grab
it by the display just to quickly hoist
it up or maybe you carry it from one
room to another by any of the corners if
you do you got a stop it can damage your
laptops hinge or even the internal parts
when a laptop is shut it should be
picked up by the front or rear otherwise
use both hands to pick it up on each
side treat your laptop right and it'll
return the favor
you know you won't have to spend a bunch
of money on a new one number eight
sitting with your laptop
hey it's called a laptop for a reason
right it goes on top of your lap nope
that being correct at least partly
keeping your laptop on your lap while
you're using it can be really bad for
your health
especially for the fellas according to
dr. Jesse and Mills an associate
clinical professor of Urology and
director of the men's clinic at UCLA the
heat and electromagnetic frequencies a
laptop produces can have a detrimental
impact on a man's reproduction
capability so basically keep it cool
down there guys number seven stacking
laptops or hard drives on top of each
other in case you have several laptops
or hard drives you're not using at the
moment you might want to be careful
about how you store them
first of all stacking laptops on top of
each other can damage their screens due
to the weight and if you're stacking
hard drives for storage you also risk
scratching and damaging them plus if
they're clinking around on top of each
other it creates vibrations that can
really mess up their internal parts
placing a piece of cardboard between
them should prevent that from happening
as for hard drives in use you got to put
them in some sort of rigid mounting
system to avoid overheating use separate
storage bins for your laptops number 6
failing to update software or apps ah
that message we all love to ignore who
wants to wait over an hour just for
software update no one that's who
but it's still really important every
update contains bug fixes additional
features and security updates that are
necessary to keep your device in tip-top
shape set an update schedule on the
weekends so that you don't get bothered
of this annoying message right in the
middle of doing something important on
your computer if you keep putting them
off these updates will just continue
piling up on top of each other and that
just equals more time that you've got to
wait when you finally decide to up
number five charging your iPhone have
you ever noticed your iPhone getting
pretty hot while it's on the charger
perhaps you left a case on Apple
strictly advises their users to remove
the case before plugging their phone
into the charger and if your phone is
taking forever to charge try putting it
on airplane mode
yeah sure you won't be able to stream
music or videos but at least it'll speed
up the charging time a little bit hey
you win some you lose some number four
not disinfecting your cell phone in a
2011 study researchers at the London
School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine
found that one out of every six smart
phones contains fecal matter
that's bacteria filled remnants of
number two according to dr. Charles
Gerba a microbiologist at the University
of Arizona
cell phones carried ten times more
bacteria than most toilet seats is that
reason enough to start disinfecting your
phone good to do it the right way so
that you don't damage your device dip
the corner of a soft microfiber cloth
into an alcohol water solution and wipe
your phone down both the screen and the
backside use a dry corner of the same
cloth to remove any residue don't use
abrasive cloths or anything that leaves
lint like a paper towel and no your
shirt won't cut it either number three
freezing batteries here's a weird myth
that goes back to the 80s putting a
battery in the freezer will make it last
longer but according to the experts at
Duracell batteries should be stored at
room temperature in a dry environment
not inside your freezer with your
popsicles and their competitors at
Energizer agree explaining that the
extreme temperature can corrode the seal
and damage the battery
[Music]
number two not backing up your devices
whether it's a smartphone a laptop or
tablet it needs to be backed up
regularly you might be lucky today but
are you willing to risk it if your luck
runs out what if your gadget gets stolen
damaged or hacked avoid these scary
what-ifs and backup your data there are
tons of programs and cloud services out
there some of which are totally free
that can easily backup your device with
just a few clicks and if you don't trust
third party services manufacturers
always have their own backup software
you can use number one using keyboard
feet what are those little feet
underneath the keyboard supposed to be
for anyway ergonomics good guess but not
quite back Carell quizon a company that
specializes in developing economic heart
and software solutions explains that
those feet were put there back in the
1980s in order to imitate the height of
typewriters which were used way more
often back then are they even still used
today or are they already ancient relics
anyway these feet are supposed to tilt
the keyboard towards the user so that
they can see the keys easier but we've
learned a lot since the 80s and we now
know that this tilting is actually
really bad for you because it's strained
your wrist the best and safest way to
type is with a flatline keyboard are you
guilty of any of these offences do you
know any other things that people often
do wrong when it comes to technology and
gadgets share your experience and
knowledge in the comments down below
don't forget to give this video a like
and share it with all your friends click
that big red subscribe button and stay
with us on the bright side of life
[Music]
you